
               ---------------------PCB DESIGNING----------------
               
 -> PCB :- Printed Circuited  board <-
-: PCB is integral  part of any electrical and deelectronics devices.
-: PCB is made up of copper,dielectric material,solder mask, and silkscreen.

PAD: It is refers to conductive area on board surface pad means conductive  area on the surface.

-->In design level we need to create a PAD by refering datasheet like  resistor,capacitor etc..




Two types odf PADS are:
1.SMD
2.Through hold fold
 After we need to connect one piece to another piece 
 
 
 
Solder Mask :- It is process of covering PCB to protect against
,corriosion,rust,Prevent solder bridges from Forming between closely spaced solder pads.

--> If we need to connect one cause to another case is called tree.

Silk Screen :- It is used as a reference indicator for placing components on a PCB,marks,logos,symbols and so on.

 Types of PCB :-
  1) Single sided: one side place and another for soldered.
  2) Double sided
  3) Multi layer
  4) Rigid 
  5) Flexible
  6) Rigid Flex
  
  
SHD :-It is for used to solder on the surface of board.
Throug fold :-It is solder the component through hole.
  
  Layers:--
      
      Pcb is a made up of corresponding  copper and solder mask and siloscreen this is layer stack up pf PCB.
      
      -->  This is 4 layers stackup <--
      
      -->  L1 is top layer.
      -->  L2 is internal 1st layer.
      -->  L3 is internal 2nd layer.
      -->  L4 is internal bottom layer.
      
      
Via :--Via allows a coductive connection between different layers:
  Types of Via:
     1) TH via
     2) BLind via
     3) Buried via
     
1) Through hda via:- It is connected from top to bottom layers.
2) Blind via:- It is connected from to internal or bottom to      internal layers.
3) Buried via:- It is connected between only internal layer.


  PCB Performance classes:-
  Class1:- 
        General electronic products,consumers electronics,Toys, etc...
  Class2:- 
        Dedicated service product,professional systems,computers,communicationsystems.
  Class3:-
        High reliability product,radar's,weaponsytem,Satellite communication equipment,aerospace.
        
        
        
   Rigid flex PCB :- we can bend it easily 
   
   Rigid:- It is a solid not flex.
   Flexible:- It is a flexible and bend easily.
   
:--For PCB design we have lot of software there like altum c,alto expedition pods. 






